If this application was made through a Licensed Immigration Adviser, lawyer or other representative
who is exempt from licensing, they must give this entire document to the applicant.
Application number: SV02080405
Client number: 91855238

Kia ora KHIN KHAING ZAR THEIN,
Application for a student visa for:
Applicant details
Name: KHIN KHAING ZAR THEIN
Gender: Female
Nationality: Myanmar

Date of birth: 04-November-1985
Passport number: MI071193
Client number: 91855238

Thank you for your application for a student visa. We received your application on 10-September-
2025.

Your visa application has been declined
After careful consideration, we have declined your application for a student visa. We understand this
is not the result you were hoping for.
Why your application was declined
Future plans considered when assessing genuine intent
Student visa applicants must satisfy us that they genuinely intend to comply with their visa
conditions and will leave New Zealand when required.
Student visas are granted with the condition that the student makes satisfactory progress in their
studies and attends all their classes, unless they have genuine reasons not to.
These requirements are in immigration instructions U3.1, E3.20, and E5.
When assessing this, we look at plans they have after their study finishes.
We have considered your letter provided outlining study reasons and plan however you have not
provided plausible evidence and information supporting your plan after completing your study in
New Zealand.
We are not satisfied you will comply with the conditions of a student visa and will leave New Zealand
when required. Therefore, you do not meet the requirements for a student visa, as per immigration
instructions U3.1, E3.20, and E5.
Our website has information on the rules, evidence, and assessment of genuine intentions:
www.immigration.govt.nz/genuine-intentions-study.
https://www.immigration.govt.nz/opsmanual/#44905.htm

Ties to home country considered when assessing genuine intent
Student visa applicants must satisfy us that they genuinely intend to comply with their visa
conditions and will leave New Zealand when required.
When assessing this, we check if they have strong ties and commitments to their home country that
will encourage them to return home if they did not have a valid visa to remain in New Zealand.
These ties can include close relatives, financial assets and employment.
We also consider the situation in the applicant’s home country, including the political, social or
economic situation, and whether it would discourage them from returning.
These requirements are in immigration instructions U3.1 and E5.
The evidence you provided does not show that you have sufficiently strong ties and commitments to
your home country. We have also considered the situation in your home country when deciding if
your ties and commitments are sufficient enough to encourage your return.
We are not satisfied you would leave New Zealand when required. Therefore, you do not meet the
requirements to be granted a student visa, as per immigration instructions U3.1 and E5.
Our website has information on the rules, evidence, and assessment of genuine intentions:
www.immigration.govt.nz/genuine-intentions-study.
https://www.immigration.govt.nz/opsmanual/#44905.htm
Student visa applicants must show they genuinely intend to come to New Zealand to study
Student visa applicants must satisfy us that they genuinely intend to come to New Zealand to study,
comply with their visa conditions and will leave New Zealand when required.
This requirement is in immigration instructions U3.1 and E5.
You have not demonstrated satisfactorily your genuine intent to study the proposed course and how
the course would substantially your career prospects. Having considered all information available to
us, we are not satisfied you genuinely intends a temporary stay in New Zealand for a lawful purpose.
We are not satisfied you genuinely intend to come to New Zealand to study, will comply with the
conditions of a student visa, or that you would leave New Zealand when required. Therefore, you do
not meet the requirements to be granted a student visa, as per immigration instructions U3.1 and
E5.
Our website has information on the rules, evidence, and assessment of genuine intentions to study
in New Zealand:
www.immigration.govt.nz/genuine-intentions-study.
https://www.immigration.govt.nz/opsmanual/#44905.htm
The information we used to assess your application
We assessed your application using only information you provided or that is publicly available. As
you are outside of New Zealand and we did not use other sources of information, we were not
required to provide you an opportunity to comment before we made our decision, as per
immigration instructions E7.15 and E7.15.1
Operational Manual - Immigration New Zealand. Issue Date: 1 June 2025Operational Manual -
Immigration New Zealand. Issue Date: 22 August 2016

We considered whether granting you a limited visa would reduce our concerns. We also considered
if there were any special circumstances that would justify making an exception to immigration
instructions. We found no reason to take any of these actions.
Your options now that we have declined your application
As you are outside of New Zealand, you cannot appeal or ask us to reconsider our decision.
You can submit a new application if you have new information or your circumstances change and
you think you now meet requirements for a visa. We will consider this new application on its own
merits.
How to contact us
If you have questions, visit our website
www.immigration.govt.nz.
You can also call our Customer Service Centre for general information about immigration or your
application:
• 0508 55 88 55 if you are calling from a New Zealand landline
• 09 914 4100 if you are calling from a New Zealand mobile phone
• +64 9 914 4100 if you are outside of New Zealand.
You will need to tell us your application and client numbers (see the top of this letter). Please have
them ready when you phone.
We cannot give you immigration advice. If you need advice on your specific situation, you should
speak to a Licensed Immigration Adviser, lawyer or other person legally able to give you immigration
advice.
Learn more about receiving immigration advice at
www.immigration.govt.nz/advice.
Ngā mihi,
Truce Nguyen
Senior Immigration Officer
Immigration New Zealand