Immigration New Zealand
PO Box 76895
Manukau 2241
Auckland
Dear Immigration Officer,
Salutations!
My name is , 26 years old, single, and a law-abiding citizen of the Republic of
the Philippines.
I am writing this letter to apply for a Student Permit to complete a master’s degree in Information
Technology at Auckland Institute of Studies in Auckland, New Zealand where I was accepted. My
program will commence in September 2024.
PREVIOUS STUDIES, EMPLOYMENT, AND QUALIFICATIONS
Background
I am the eldest son to my parents, my dad is 56 years old, and mom is 54 years old. Both are Overseas
Filipino Workers (OFW) employed in Kuwait. I have two younger brothers, 21 years old and 15 years
old. They are students, one is taking BS in Nursing in the Philippines and the youngest is Grade 10. I
graduated Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering from De La Salle Lipa, Philippines.
My Work Experience
After graduation, I started working as an Associate Software Engineer at Infor Manila, Sept 2018 to
Oct 2021. After that, I worked as a Programmer Analyst S3 at Vertere Global Solutions (Oct 2021
to Oct 2022) and my client was Accenture, Inc. After a year of my employment at Vertere, I was
absorbed by Accenture to work as Full-time employee with title Packaged App Development Team
Lead. This is my current work as of this writing.
PURPOSE OF STUDY
My field is competitive. As technology evolves rapidly, we professionals in tech need to stay updated
with the latest advancements. Even though there is a high demand for tech workers, there is still a skill
shortage because of complex skill requirements. Many tech roles require advanced degrees or
certifications which creates competition among candidates and qualified candidates are offered with
high salaries and attractive benefits. I would need a strong profile. Therefore, with this master’s degree,
I believe the knowledge and skills I will gain during my program will benefit me and bring me closer to
my goal. I aspire to be a Tech Architect in the Philippines. The Philippines has a well-established IT and
BPO industry. Many companies are handling international projects. Many EU or NA companies are
transferring their technical departments in the Philippines, and I believe that this will increase in the
future.
WHY AUCKLAND INSTITUTE OF STUDIES (AIS)
This school is known for its focus on career-oriented education and its commitment to providing higher
quality education in a supportive environment. My cousin attended this school and recommended this
to me and noting that AIS is an excellent institution and has a welcoming community with a great
teaching faculty. Among the courses included in my chosen program of study (Master of Information
Technology), I am most keen to attend the following subjects as it will help me immensely:
• Cloud Application Development – Cloud development has become a major trend in the tech
industry, because of the scalability and flexibility of the infrastructure compared to the traditional
on prem setup, and the accessibility of the application because it’s deployed on Cloud, resources
can be accessed remotely.
• Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment – in building applications. Continuous
integration is the practice of automating builds and testing and improved collaboration and
software quality, whereas continuous deployment is automating the deployment process to
ensure rapid or faster delivery.
• Topics in Cloud Computing – this course provides the students with the knowledge required to
understand to perform the essential tasks related to the maintenance, operation and
troubleshooting cloud resources.
WHY NEW ZEALAND
New Zealand is globally recognized for providing top-tier academic experiences that have empowered
many international students to excel in their fields. I am excited to personally experience the advantages
of a foreign education and access facilities and standards that surpass what is available locally in the
Philippines. What makes studying in New Zealand particularly appealing is that my cousin, who
currently lives there, has offered to share an apartment with me during my studies. This support has
given me the confidence to pursue this opportunity. Knowing that they will be there to guide me in an
unfamiliar environment has further strengthened my commitment to this endeavor.
New Zealand is known for its low crime rates and welcoming environment, which gives me confidence
in my safety during my stay. Moreover, the country features breathtaking landscapes with impressive
forests, lakes, and mountains, offering ample opportunities for outdoor activities such as hiking and
trekking during my leisure time.
FINANCIAL CAPACITY
I am currently employed as a Packaged App Development Team Lead at Accenture, Inc. with a monthly
salary of P90,000 or roughly NZD2,600. I have prepared to be able to finance this endeavor as I have
enough funds to pay for my tuition fee as well as my living expenses (See relevant documents regarding
my statements). Additionally, my cousin and her partner are currently staying there and has offered me
a room within their rented apartment, therefore I will save money by sharing an apartment with them
as well as other utilities such as electricity, water, and essentials like groceries.
ASSURANCE AND REASONS I WILL BE COMING BACK TO THE PHILIPPINES
These are my reasons why I need to go back to the Philippines after my studies in New Zealand:
1. Family – Since my parents are working abroad. The people in the house are only me, my brother
and my grandmother. Since I am the eldest son, I currently have the biggest responsibility in the
house and when I leave for New Zealand I will temporarily need to ask my younger brother to
assume my responsibilities until my return.
2. My Long-time Girlfriend – We have been together for almost 5 years now. We started before
the pandemic and became closer to each other every day. She supports my decision to be a
student in New Zealand and temporarily leave her as she has her own commitments here in our
home country to be with her family and her career as a manager in a well-known local bank.
After my studies, we will finally decide when to settle down and think about our future together.
3. My Cats – I have two cats: Snowy, who is 4 years old and was a gift from my girlfriend, and
Weiss, who is 3 years old and I adopted from the streets near my home. I will leave them in my
brother's care while I am away and will miss them dearly. I am aware of New Zealand's strict
biosecurity regulations, which, given that my country is not one of the three categories permitted
for pet importation, make it impossible for me to bring them with me. Therefore, I look forward to
reuniting with them after completing my program in New Zealand.
4. My Finances – I have been continuously contributing towards my social security and my PruLife
VUL (this consists of my insurance and investments) as soon as I started working professionally.
I wish to be able to avail my benefits and funds when I have the need for it.
TRAVEL HISTORY
My girlfriend and I love to travel. Recently I have travelled to a few countries and have never overstayed
my visits. Here are the countries I have recently visited:
• Japan (2018) – stayed for a week in Kyoto
• Thailand (2024) – stayed for a week in Bangkok
• South Korea (2024) – visa was granted without issues, stayed for a week in Seoul.
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PLANS IN THE PHILIPPINES
Here are my plans after finishing my studies in New Zealand:
1. Career Advancement – As mentioned earlier, I aim to become a Tech Architect, which
necessitates expertise in my field. Even if the company is not within my home country. As a tech
worker we have the privilege to work remotely even if the company is overseas. I am targeting
the following prospective companies and positions that align with my career goals:
a. Technical Architect – Globant Commerce Studio - P200,000 / Month
b. Technical Architect – Deloitte - P200,000 – 250,000 / Month
c. Team Manager - Senior Architect – Arcadis - P250,000 - 300,000 / Month
d. Artificial Inteligence Architect – Globe Group - P200,000 – 300,000 / Month
2. Business – As a Tech Architect, I possess the expertise to build systems from the ground up,
which is increasingly valuable as technology evolves and businesses strive for modernization.
This presents a great opportunity to provide innovative software solutions or develop projects
that support business needs. Consequently, I also aspire to establish my own name and create
a start-up that addresses these needs.
3. Future Family – My girlfriend and I would like to settle down and plan marriage. We are
establishing and planning our future together. Upon my return, we can finally set our plans in
motion.
DECLARATION
As an applicant of the student visa to New Zealand, I fully commit to all immigration rules and
regulations and requirements set forth by authorities. I understand the importance of complying with
the conditions of my visa, including maintaining full-time enrollment at Auckland Institute of Studies with
perfect attendance and attending all required classes. I am also aware of the obligation to adhere with
the work restrictions and to abide all legal and regulatory frameworks during my stay. My intention is to
follow and respect New Zealand’s immigration laws diligently.
Sincerely,
Student Visa Applicant