03 August 2024
Dear Immigration Officer,
Greetings!
My name is (NAME), (AGE), single, and a law-aboding citizen of the Republic of the Philippines.
I am writing this letter to apply for a Student Visa to complete a degree in (COURSE GRADUATED) at (SCHOOL) in (CITY,COUNTRY) where I was accepted. My program will commence in (STARTING DATE).
PREVIOUS STUDIES, EMPLOYMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS
Background
I am writing to express my keen interest in enrolling in the (COURSE AND LEVEL). My background (COURSE ON PH OR FINISH CERTIFICATES)
Work Experience
- To create a work experience section, list the jobs starting with the most recent. For each job,, include the Job Title, Company name, where its located and the date start and end. Write a short bullet points to describe what you did and achievements
.
PURPOSE OF STUDY
- To create a purpose of study, first choose the topic you want to learn about. Think about what you want to achieve and who will benefit from your research. Explain why the study is important and how it can help others. Finally, write a short statement that clearly sums up your goals and the importance of your study.
WHY (school)
- to explain why you chose a specific school, start by identifying the key factors that attracted you, such as academic programs, values, career opportunities and financial considerations which are all common factors in choosing a school.
FINANCIAL CAPACITY
(Include the Job, Bank Statements or other proof of funds)
- to explain your financial capacity to immigration authorities, clearly outline the source of your funding, including personal savings, family support, scholarships, loans or sponsorships. Specify the amounts available and provide supporting documentation such as bank statements, scholarships letters, and affidavits of support. Mention your estimated expenses, including tuition, living costs, and other fees, and explain how your resources will fully cover these costs. Reassure the authorities that you have a solid financial plan for the entire duration of your studies and have no immediate need for additional financial assistance, Conclude by expressing confidence that you can manage your finances responsibly while studying at New Zealand.
(See relevant documents regarding these statements).
ASSURANCE AND REASONS I WILL BE COMING BACK IN THE PHILIPPINES
These are my strong reasons to go back to the Philippines after my studies in:
Examples :
1. Family ties and Social Ties
2. Job Market Demand
3. Business Opportunities
4. Cultural Connection
5. Government Incentives and Programs
6. Personal Growth and Fulfillment
TRAVEL HISTORY
(Include if you travelled before and what country)
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PLANS IN THE PHILIPPINES
Here are my plans after finishing my studies in New Zealand :
1. Career Advancement (Benefit of finishing the course)
2. Other plans for the future
DECLARATION
Please know that I am committed to following New Zealand’s policies for international students. I assure you that I will return to the Philippines once I complete my program at (School).
I hope the information I have provided meets the requirements of the New Zealand Embassy of the Philippines to grant me a student visa.
Thank you for taking the time to review my application. I look forward to a favorable response.
Sincerely yours,
Name