Immigration instructions define partnership as 2 people of the opposite or same sex, who live together in a genuine and stable partnership in a legal marriage, a civil union or a de facto relationship.

Immigration New Zealand (INZ) considers partnership visa applications very carefully. An immigration officer needs to be satisfied that the applicant meets immigration instructions and that couple are living together in a relationship that is credible, genuine and stable. Marriage alone is not sufficient evidence for the purposes of immigration instructions and applicants are required to provide a range of documentation to demonstrate their relationship meets requirements. It is the responsibility of the applicant to satisfy the immigration officer that the requirements of immigration instructions have been met.  

In cases where INZ is not satisfied immigration requirements have been met, additional documentation may be requested, and we may verify the information provided.

An applicant and their supporting partner must be aged 18 or older, or if they are aged 16 or 17, have the consent of their parents or guardians. They must also have met each other before applying for a visa based on partnership, and not be close relatives.

During the assessment of a partnership application, we may decide to interview the applicant and partner or even conduct a visit to the couple to help determine that the relationship is credible, and genuine and stable.

Evidence of partnership for a temporary and residence visa may include:

marriage certificate (if married)
civil union certificate (if in a civil union)
proof of shared residence (such as joint mortgage, tenancy agreements, or rent book)
financial dependence or interdependence (proof of shared income or bank accounts, or accounts that show money transfers to or from the applicant and their partner)
birth certificates of any children
any documents showing public or family recognition of the relationship
correspondence (including postmarked envelopes) to the applicant and their partner at the same address
photographs of the applicant and their partner together
evidence of the duration of the relationship
the degree of commitment to a shared life
evidence of communication between the applicant and their partner (this may include cards, letters, emails and social media conversations)
tickets from shared travel or activities
divorce documents from previous relationship(s)
evidence the couple own assets together
joint utilities’ accounts.
For residence the couple must be able to demonstrate that they have been living together for a minimum of 12 months at the time the application is lodged.

If the applicant has been living apart from their partner for any significant period of time during their relationship, they must also provide evidence of the length of any periods of separation, the reasons for them, and how their relationship was maintained during those periods.

INZ acknowledges that unlike other immigration categories, partnership applications involve a high degree of subjective consideration by an immigration officer of an individual’s case.

The provision of false and misleading information to an immigration officer as part of an application is a criminal offence. Allegations of fraudulent relationships entered into for immigration purposes (for money or otherwise) will be taken seriously. 

Applicants whose visa applications have been declined have various options open to them, depending on their situation. Unsuccessful temporary visa applicants can ask for the decision to be reconsidered as long as they are in New Zealand lawfully, and make the request within 14 days. Visa applicants who are outside of New Zealand when they apply cannot apply for a reconsideration, but they can lodge a new application for a visa.

Applicants who have been declined residence can appeal to the Immigration and Protection Tribunal within 42 days of the date of their decision.