16 July 2025
Khin Khaing Zar Thein
Block 139, Pasir Ris Street 11
#07-195
Singapore
Singapore, 510139
Singapore
Student ID: 1653226

Formal Offer of Place

We are pleased to advise you that your application for a place at the University of Waikato has been successful. You have been granted
admission for the following programme of study.
Qualification Details
Qualification: Master of Information Technology
Division: Division of STEM
Orientation Start Date: 23 February 2026
Programme End Date: 14 February 2027
Enrolment Status: Full-time study
Location: Hamilton Campus
TheUniversity of Waikato supports Khin Khaing Zar Thein being granted a student visa upon successfully meeting ImmigrationNew Zealand requirements (refer
to the Study Visa section of this offer). TheUniversity of Waikato has appropriately assessed the student's application and can confirmthat an offer has been
made in accordancewith sections 533 and 534 of the Education and Training Act 2020, and is appropriate for the student’s expectations, English language
proficiency and academic capability. TheUniversity of Waikato has agreed to observe and be bound by The Education (PastoralCare of Tertiary and International

Learners) Code of Practice 2021. Copies of theCode are available fromtheNew ZealandQualifications Authority website at https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/providers-
partners/education-code-of-practice/.

Additional Important Information
Prior to enrolment, you are required to provide hard copies or scanned verified copies of your original Master’s degree certificate and
transcripts.
Please note this 180 point Master of Information Technology is not available to start in C trimester. This programme includes a
mandatory course (CSMAX596 - Computer Science Internship) that requires you to complete a 400-hour full-time internship programme
with industry. To support the internship programme the university provides an Industry Liaison Officer, however it will be up to you to
successfully secure an internship position. You will need to achieve a GPA of 4.0 or higher in your taught papers to progress onto the
internship. If this is not achieved, you will graduate with a Postgraduate Diploma in Information Technology. Information about the papers
and course structure is available here.
International Fees Information

Please note: Your final fees are based on the papers (units or modules) you choose in your qualification when you enrol. The fees shown in this
offer are the indicative (or estimated) fees based on a standard selection of papers for your qualification, using 2026 fees.Our fees for future
academic years are not yet available. If you are enrolling into a qualification in a future academic year, use the above indicative fees as a
guideline only. The fees for the next academic year will applyto the papers you take in that year.
You need to be aware that anychanges you make to your choice of papers will result in a change to your fees, and if you need to repeat a paper,
you must paythe fee again.Our fees are subject to inflationarytrends andGovernment policyand regulation. The Universityupdates its fees
annually, and you will be charged the newfee each year you are enrolled. Your fee will not remain the same as when you started.
We strongly recommend you refer to our fees page to understand more about this and to understand the non-tuition fees and charges
you are required to pay.

Page 1 of 2

Important Start Date information
Orientation Week for this qualification starts on 23 February 2026. All classes start one week later and you must have met all
conditions, be physically here and enrolled in the specific papers approved at the Faculty before classes start. The compulsory
orientation week allows you to finalise paper selections, payments, visa, medical and travel insurance, settle into accommodation and
familiarise yourself with the campus prior to classes starting. You have compulsory events in this week that you must attend including
the formal International Orientation. The programme is designed to give you all the practical information you need to adapt to life in New
Zealand and at the University, and the opportunity to establish some social networks with other students and staff. For more information,
please refer to our Key University dates.
Important Accommodation Information
Accommodation applications are compulsory if booking On-campus or Homestay accommodation. Payment alone does not guarantee
accommodation. Apply for accommodation at: https://www.waikato.ac.nz/student-life/accommodation
How to accept and pay fees
Accepting your offer
To accept your offer of place online, go to your MyWaikato student portal and click on “Respond to Offer”. If you have applied through an
education agent, please notify your agent that you wish to accept your offer and they will respond on your behalf.
Paying your Fees
At the University of Waikato, payment of tuition fees is the final confirmation of your acceptance. You should pay the required amount,
which is the fee for the first year of study or the first programme of study listed on your pathway offer. Please ensure your student ID and
full name are clearly shown in payment transfer documents. For more information, please refer to:
https://www.waikato.ac.nz/study/international/how-to-apply/how-to-accept-and-pay-fees
To view and download your receipt, log into your MyWaikato and locate your receipt under Finance > View my Receipts.
Scholarship Information
The University of Waikato offers many scholarships. To apply, view available scholarships, regulations and closing dates you are
encouraged to visit our scholarships information: http://www.waikato.ac.nz/scholarships
Study Visa
As an international student, you will need to obtain a student visa before you travel to New Zealand. If you are already in New Zealand
you will need to ensure that you hold an appropriate visa for your programme of study prior to study commencement. Approval to enrol
at the University of Waikato does not automatically qualify you for a student visa. We suggest you start the process of applying as soon
as possible as failure to obtain the correct visa before your classes start may result in you being unable to study with us.
You can apply for your student visa before you pay your tuition fees. This only applies to students applying from outside New Zealand.
For more information please refer to the INZwebsite.
Please note, students enrolling in a qualification that has a standard length of time of two years or more are eligible to apply for a
Pathway visa from Immigration New Zealand (INZ). The University of Waikato supports these students being granted a Pathway visa
upon successfully meeting the INZ requirements. For more information please refer to the Pathway Student visa page.
Ngā mihi
Admissions Office
University of Waikato